h 1 summary:
Many applications today are Data-Intensive; Focus on data volume and complexity rather than
CPU power.
Many applications need to:
 Database: To store Data.
 Caches: To remember expensive operations and speed up read.
 Search Indexes: To allow users to search by keywords.
 Stream processing: To send messages asynchronous.
 Batch processing: To analysis large amount of accumulated Data.
In this chapter we will start to achieve Reliable, Scalable and Maintainable data system.
Reliability
The system should continue to work correctly even when things go wrong
Fault Failure
is one component deviating from its
specification
When the whole system stops providing service
to user
Types of Fault:
 Hardware: Hard disks crashing or power outages. We handle this with redundancy
(RAID, backup).
 Software: Bugs that cause crashes, like linux leap second bug.
 Human Errors: Mistakes by operators, which are leading cause of outages.
How to handle human errors? (To make system reliable):
 Minimize opportunities for error: Through well-designed APIs and admin interfaces.
 Provide Sandbox: Non-Production environment to test safely.
 Testing: Automated unit and integration tests.
 Quick Recovery: Easy rollbacks of configuration and code.
2. Scalability
Dealing with growth in data or traffic volume. If the load doubles, how can we handle it?
 Describe Load: We use Load Parameters to discuss scalability:
o Requests per second to a web server.
o Ratio of reads to writes in DB.
 Describe Performance: In online systems, we care about Response Time (how long a
request waits to be handled).
 Percentiles: We don't use average but use:
o Median: How long 50% of users wait.
o Tail Latencies (p99): It is very important because they affect the most valuable
customers who have the most data.
3. Maintainability
Make it easy for people to work on productively over time. It has 3 main principles:
 Operability: Make routine tasks easy for Operations Team so they can focus on high-
value activities. Includes good monitoring and automation.
 Simplicity: Managing complexity by using Abstraction to hide complex details.
 Evolvability : Making it easy to change the system to user needs (Adapt to change
requirements easily).
Summary
Concepts Principle Goal
Scalability Load Parameters, Percentiles Keep performance good as load increase.
Simplicity Abstraction Hide complexity from implementation.
Operability Monitoring & Automation Ease routine tasks for operation team.
Evolvability Agility & Flexibility Adapt to change requirement easily.